While in today's world, the Internet is a fact of life, and most mentions of it deal with unusual new laws or the discussion of the Internet as a cultural force in the world, this wasn't always the case. Started as a network of networks in the late 1960's, the Internet was, by today's standards, a pitifully slow connection that spanned only the most with-it college campuses and govenment installations. While the BBS world thrived and exploded, the Internet slowly grew, adding new schools and stronger connections over time. Before BBSes knew what hit them, this collegiate computer tool suddenly became The Next Big Thing, and any BBS that didn't grow and adapt to handle the Internet in some form slowly withered and died. On the other hand, any BBSes that made the switch were mutated into something completely unrecognizable anyway, so it was a lose-lose situation as far as the BBS culture surviving intact.
Nostalgic whining aside, the Internet stood away from the BBS world in some very positive ways: It was truly worldwide and your writings could be seen by thousands around the world as opposed to less than a hundred if you were lucky; the participants were generally college-age and had gotten over that inexplicable need to act like a complete ass online; and the subjects and topics approached by different people on the Internet were generally both interesting, and deep.Of course, it did in fact collapse into a relative heap when the Internet became the must-be-on place for every schmuck with a modem. But on the other hand, you didn't need to spend tens of thousands a year for access to a terminal, either.These files represent the thoughts of people in the late 80's/early 90's as they struggled to bring to the world the "definitive answer" on everything, which seems to have been one of the Internet's inherent missions. They're separate from BBS textfiles, but they're definitely something worth checking out.Around the 1970's, the term "hacking" meant any deep interest in computers that manifested itself in programming or learning arcane aspects of the machinery or operating systems. By the early 1980's, this meaning morphed into a general term of fear to describe anyone who did anything even remotely evil using computer equipment. The people who considered themselves non-malicious "Hackers" decried this bastardization of the term they took with pride, and the new name "cracker" arrived, years after that name applied to people who removed copy protection from home video games. By the late 80's to early 90's, no one cared too much, except for the people who care about everything too much.In other words, these textfiles are all about hacking.With evenings and late nights blown away by the wonders of the BBS world, many school-going users found themselves with a tough reality: poor grades. This was all the more frustrating to parents and teachers because the student would otherwise seem to be bright and understanding. Worst of all, this lack of attention/attendance to school subjects would possibly lead to banishment from the computer.To circumvent this, it became a sort of tradition to upload term papers or essays created in school to BBSes. This served two equal needs: Lagging students would seize this cheap and easy influx of information for their otherwise intolerable studies, and students who posted their essays got the thrill and pride of knowing their work was reaching a much wider audience than just the teacher, and might even be used to save the occasional butt.While people who read the textfiles.com site might think that the world of g-files and text-only BBSes is dead and gone, there are actually many people who keep the faith, having information they want to see spread far and wide, and writing textfiles to get the word out. While the subjects are newer and the writing more internet-minded, the themes and forces touched upon in other files appear here as well, showing that the spirit is alive and thriving.When BBSes were the way to get textfiles, you always shot over to the "Uploads" section to see what people had just added to the system, so you could get it first. That's where the name of this section comes from. In actuality, if you have a file you've just written you want to see up here, send mail to.Note, by the way, that because ALL the new files are being put here, it's a bit of a mish-mash. Just like the old daysAs time is going on, people have donated files with the same bad ideas about drugs, vandalism and the ol' boom-boom; hopefully in a mere homage to files of old. Don't follow instructions you find in random textfiles on the internet; it just leads to tears.While in today's world, the Internet is a fact of life, and most mentions of it deal with unusual new laws or the discussion of the Internet as a cultural force in the world, this wasn't always the case. Started as a network of networks in the late 1960's, the Internet was, by today's standards, a pitifully slow connection that spanned only the most with-it college campuses and govenment installations. While the BBS world thrived and exploded, the Internet slowly grew, adding new schools and stronger connections over time. Before BBSes knew what hit them, this collegiate computer tool suddenly became The Next Big Thing, and any BBS that didn't grow and adapt to handle the Internet in some form slowly withered and died. On the other hand, any BBSes that made the switch were mutated into something completely unrecognizable anyway, so it was a lose-lose situation as far as the BBS culture surviving intact.
Nostalgic whining aside, the Internet stood away from the BBS world in some very positive ways: It was truly worldwide and your writings could be seen by thousands around the world as opposed to less than a hundred if you were lucky; the participants were generally college-age and had gotten over that inexplicable need to act like a complete ass online; and the subjects and topics approached by different people on the Internet were generally both interesting, and deep.Of course, it did in fact collapse into a relative heap when the Internet became the must-be-on place for every schmuck with a modem. But on the other hand, you didn't need to spend tens of thousands a year for access to a terminal, either.These files represent the thoughts of people in the late 80's/early 90's as they struggled to bring to the world the "definitive answer" on everything, which seems to have been one of the Internet's inherent missions. They're separate from BBS textfiles, but they're definitely something worth checking out.Around the 1970's, the term "hacking" meant any deep interest in computers that manifested itself in programming or learning arcane aspects of the machinery or operating systems. By the early 1980's, this meaning morphed into a general term of fear to describe anyone who did anything even remotely evil using computer equipment. The people who considered themselves non-malicious "Hackers" decried this bastardization of the term they took with pride, and the new name "cracker" arrived, years after that name applied to people who removed copy protection from home video games. By the late 80's to early 90's, no one cared too much, except for the people who care about everything too much.In other words, these textfiles are all about hacking.With evenings and late nights blown away by the wonders of the BBS world, many school-going users found themselves with a tough reality: poor grades. This was all the more frustrating to parents and teachers because the student would otherwise seem to be bright and understanding. Worst of all, this lack of attention/attendance to school subjects would possibly lead to banishment from the computer.To circumvent this, it became a sort of tradition to upload term papers or essays created in school to BBSes. This served two equal needs: Lagging students would seize this cheap and easy influx of information for their otherwise intolerable studies, and students who posted their essays got the thrill and pride of knowing their work was reaching a much wider audience than just the teacher, and might even be used to save the occasional butt.While people who read the textfiles.com site might think that the world of g-files and text-only BBSes is dead and gone, there are actually many people who keep the faith, having information they want to see spread far and wide, and writing textfiles to get the word out. While the subjects are newer and the writing more internet-minded, the themes and forces touched upon in other files appear here as well, showing that the spirit is alive and thriving.When BBSes were the way to get textfiles, you always shot over to the "Uploads" section to see what people had just added to the system, so you could get it first. That's where the name of this section comes from. In actuality, if you have a file you've just written you want to see up here, send mail to.Note, by the way, that because ALL the new files are being put here, it's a bit of a mish-mash. Just like the old daysAs time is going on, people have donated files with the same bad ideas about drugs, vandalism and the ol' boom-boom; hopefully in a mere homage to files of old. Don't follow instructions you find in random textfiles on the internet; it just leads to tears.